  Raised on the 4000 block of the north side of Chicago, through the sole
efforts of my mother, a tenacious woman who instilled in me the drive to improve
myself constantly.  She was born and raised in Guatemala with only the equivalent
of an 9th grade education, but that did not stop her from succeeding in her goals and
dreams.  She immigrated to the United States when she was only 18; she worked
her way through life, from cleaning houses in her earlier years, to now being a
small business owner.  She instilled in me the concept that self- improvement
is a never ending process, and hard work leads to self­fulfillment.

  My name is Robert David Hernandez, currently a Software Engineering student at
Loyola University Chicago; formerly a Marine; most recently a SWE/SDET intern;
and a future CODE2040 Fellow.

  I grew up in Uptown and was fortunate enough to be admitted to Lane Technical
College Prep High School and chose to enlist into the United States Marine Corps
during my junior year, leaving home - not to return for the first time for 2.5
years - only 2 months after graduation.

  As a Marine, I trained and supervised junior team members whilst also
conducting technical and highly specialized air traffic control operations in a
myriad of challenging contexts.  I successfully facilitated over thirty-five
thousand flight hours that were conducted without incident. Executing both
permanent and mobile air traffic flight operations, while testing, diagnosing,
maintaining and utilizing in a variety of electronic communications systems.

  As a research assistant at Harvard University, I swiftly transitioned from
complex electronics and communications systems whilst in the Marine Corps, to
nano-fabrication and process development and improvement; making a significant
contribution to the project I was assigned – I doubled sample fabrication speed
as well as further miniaturizing the production process.

  As a SWE/SDET Intern at Echo Global Logistics, I was involved in every stage of
the development process from requirements gathering to feature development, as
well as testing & deployment.  Using an agile process, my team and I were able
to quickly adapt to changing requirements and deliver a product that exceeded
the customers’ expectations.

  I Am... a team leader with experience in a wide range of electronic and
computing disciplines; including training, leading, and supervising team members
to research, design, develop, test, implement, and maintain software projects.

  My current favorite language is C++14 , I love how it leverages the power of
high level abstractions as well as not compromising on performance and low level
control.

  I believe my skills and experience working in enterprise-scale backend web
development, technical semiconductors and materials science research,  as well
as a former Marine (trained in electronics and electronic wireless communications
systems and theory) make me an excellent candidate for the CODE2040 Fellows
Program.

Respectfully,

   Robert David Hernandez

"Excellence is to be expected."

---

Software Engineering  Student  |  Loyola University Chicago

Undergraduate Teaching Assistant  |  Computer Science

Peer Mentor, Brothers For Excellence  |  Student Diversity & Multicultural Affairs

Peer Mentor, FYRE  |  Loyola First Year Research Experience

Treasurer  |  Student Veterans Association

Team Member  |  ACM Programming Team '15
